Hello everyone and welcome to part two of the linear regression with our lectures series in the previous
lecture we went ahead and got our data and checked it out structure and summary the data and even did
some visualizations off the data in part.
We're going to focus on splitting that data into a training set and a testing set training a linear
regression model and then interpret seeing the results of that model.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
OK so here we're our studio.
Let's go ahead and continue on.
Remember I've already read the C S V file the student dasht met that C S V separators a semi-colon and
I say that as a variable d f.
So that is my data frame for my data.
I need to continue on and I want to split the data into a training set and a testing's set.
The reason for this is that we're going to train our model on the training set and then we're going
to use the test set to have predictions from the train model in order to do this.
You're going to need to install the CA tools package if you don't already have it in order to do that
.
You just need to say install the packages see a capital T O L S C A tools.
I've already installed it.
Go ahead and run that line in your console to install that package.
Let's go ahead and continue on.
This package makes it really easy to randomly split up your data into a training set and a testing set
.
First thing you need to do is call library C-8 tools and then I'm going to go ahead and set a seed.
The reason I'm setting a seed is that since the splits are going to be random I want you to be able
to follow along and have the same results as me.
In order to do that you can go ahead and set a random seed and with this random seed does is it make
sure that the random numbers I have on my session will be the same as the random numbers of yours.
So that however this dataset gets split randomly will actually occur the same for you.
If you set your seeds 1 0 1 throughout the course whenever we're doing random splits on our data I'll
always set the seed to 101.
That way you can follow along with the exact same code.
Next up we're going to split up the sample.
And this is the main way you're going to use C-8 tools.
You'll create a variable called sample and then what you're going to do is called the sample dot split
function.
And notice that it's in the C-8 tools.
And what this does it just splits the data from a vector into two sets from a predefined ratio and then
what you do is you take in your data frame and you pass in a column of your data frame.
It'll actually work for any column in your data frame.
But just by convention I like to pass in the column that we're trying to predict in this case.
We're trying to predict the final third period score or grade of the student.
So g 3.
So I go ahead and pass in the column that I'm trying to predict.
Again any column works for this but just by convention I like this because it's easier to read and I
want to come back to this code.
I remember what I'm actually trying to predict.
Then we put in the split ratio the split ratio is going to be the percentage of the stadia that we want
to use for training.
I'll go ahead and use a split ratio of 0.7 which means I'll eventually use 70 percent of this as training
data and 30 percent of it as testing data.
What that does is it basically just creates a new column called sample on your data frame and it randomly
puts in a boolean or logical value of either true or false.
And you can use that to split into training and test data.
That means I'm going to create a new variable called Train I will call the subset function pass in my
data frame and my data frame after running the sample that split.
What I'm going to do is say sample is equal to true
which means that's the 70 percent of my data
goes to training and 30 percent of my data will be test data going to make a new variable called test
a subset of my data frame where the sample is equal to false.
All right.
And that's how you can split your data into a training and test set.
Let's go ahead and review this real quickly.
I call C.A. tools because it has the sampled out Split function I pass in a column of my data frame
.
I like the pass in the column that we're trying to predict.
I set the split ratio that's going to be the actual ratio of sample equal to true.
I said train equal to the subset of the data were samples equal to true and 30 the subset of data frame
are samples equal to falls.
Make sure you really understand these five lines of code because you're going to be using them really
all the time when we're working with machine learning projects or on your own machine learning project
exercises will basically always be splitting our data into training sets and testing sets and these
five lines are going to be the lines you use over and over again to do it.
Make sure you know where they are in the notebook so you can reference them.
OK let's go ahead and move along and actually train our model here in this little script in this new
tab.
I have the general model formula and what it looks like in our We've actually already gone over this
code and this formatting.
Well let's go ahead and quickly remind ourselves how to actually build a linear regression model and
are the first that is you decide what you're going to call your model.
In this case I just call that model but you can choose any variable name you want.
We have then our assignment operator and for a linear regression model you called the l m function linear
model function.
Then you pass in the feature column that you're trying to predict the tilde sign.
And you can add up the features you want to use in order to make that prediction.
And then you pass in the data source or if you want to use all the features in your data frame you just
pasan y tilde and then a period and that will end up using all the features.
That way you don't have to have a bunch of addition signs.
If you have like 20 columns in your data frame you don't want to put 6 1 6 2 plus x 3 and so on.
You can just write it period and that will take care of all the features for you.
Let's go ahead and do this on our training data.
So now we're out the build a model phase and actually believe I have that right here so let's go in
and train and build
model.
That means I'm going to say model call L M I'm trying to predict the third period score so G-3 and I'm
going to use all my data to predict this and I'm going to pass in my training data.
So train.
You can just pass and train as a second argument.
Or if you want to do it more formally You can say data equals train.
That's the same thing that's actually going to train and create the model.
And then after that I'm going to go ahead and run the model and then interpret the model so I'll call
a summary on the model and ask our studio to go ahead and print that out for me.
And there's going to be a ton of mathematical information when we actually asked for the summary.
The model will go over the few key points that we really want to know about.
Let's go and run this control shift s make sure it all worked out OK.
Looks like we're good here.
Let's go ahead and check out what the summary actually looks like when it squeezes over the right.
And let me run this one more times.
Take care of all that space and push this up.
So we ran our model on the training set and we get this nice summary out of our model and you do that
when you call at the very end.
Summary models we printed out that summary of the model you get all this useful mathematical information
.
You want the full background of what each of these basically residuals coefficients and other mathematical
terms mean.
You can check out the introduction to statistical learning book and you can check out the note book
which basically has a huge table of model interpretation with all the important residuals coefficients
and other terms in the description and how to actually interpret them.
For now I'm going to just briefly walk you through the important parts of this summary call first you
get the call line and the call line just tells you what the formula actually was and what the model
was.
This case is essentially what you just typed in tells you your formula was G-3 re-addicted using all
the features in your data equal string.
And that's what's really nice about our.
That's all you have to do to actually build a linear regression model which is kind of crazy can do
this all in one line and have it be so intuitive.
The next line are the residuals and the actual statistical summary for the residuals.
But the residuals are it's the difference between the actual values of the variable you're predicting
and the predicting values of your regression the predicted values of your Russian for most regressions
you want your residuals to look like a normal distribution when plotted and will actually show you how
to plot out those residuals in just a moment.
But for right now you can basically just think of it as a dart board a good model is going to hit the
bullseye some of the time but not every time.
And when it doesn't hit the bull's eye it's missing in all of the other buckets evenly not just hitting
in a certain bucket like the 16 bucket of it are bored and it also misses close to the bull's eye as
opposed to missing all over the dartboard.
And that's how you can essentially interpret the residuals it's just a difference between the actual
data points and then the regression line and this residual information is just this to school information
off of it.
So the minimum the residual value the maximum residual value in the median and the first and third quintiles
will go ahead and explore this later because we'll actually discover something interesting for a model
after plotting out the residuals.
Let's go ahead and move along with the coefficients here.
We can see under the Kleefisch section we have every single feature or column variable that was in our
data frame.
Now we have a bunch of values for them.
We have the estimated coefficient the standard error of that coefficient estimate the T value of the
coefficient estimate and then the variable p value.
Let's go ahead and just briefly explain what each of these are the estimate coefficient.
Here is the value of slope calculated by the regression and it might seem a little confusing at first
that this intercept also has a value.
But just think of it as a slope that's always multiplied by 1.
This number will obviously vary the Pentagon how large the magnitude of the variable was put in.
Which means let's say you're predicting housing prices and one variable is square feet of the house
and another variable is number of rooms of the House that's going to affect the actual number of the
estimate here.
So don't worry too much about trying to interpret this variable directly.
If you don't have normalized data with normalized data you'll be able to compare each of these estimates
to each other.
But in this case we didn't actually normalize our data.
It'll be difficult to compare one coefficient to another.
Here we have the standard error which is just a measure of the variability in the estimate of the coefficient
lower means better usually.
But again those numbers relative to the value of the coefficient as a rule of thumb you'd like this
value to be at least an order of magnitude less than the coefficient estimate.
In our case we don't quite have that but we'll later on see that it's not a super big deal.
Then we have the value of the coefficient estimate which just scores it's a score that measures whether
or not that coefficient for the variable is meaningful for the model.
You probably won't actually use this value itself but know that it's used to calculate the p value and
the significance level.
And then you have the probability or the variable p value.
This is the probability that this variable over here is not relevance and you want this number to be
as small as possible.
If the number is super small our will display it with scientific notation.
So either the power of negative 10 or something like that.
Let's talk a little more in-depth about this variable P-value because this is the one that's actually
really easy to interpret right out of the bat and are makes it easy because it actually has significant
stars or the smaller p values.
If we scroll down here you'll notice that some of these columns are right next to the P-value half stars
or Asterix next to them we have two stars here.
And if you keep scrolling down you'll see that we have 1 star 3 stars a period and then three stars
.
And these are significant stars and are putting the stars here because they're basically shorthand for
significance levels of the number of Asterix displayed according to the P-value computed and the way
you interpret these star values or these significant level values is that the more stars the higher
significance we have.
And if you don't have any stars and there isn't really that much significance and you have one star
or a period for lower significance in this case three stars indicates that it's unlikely that no relationship
exists between the feature and what we're trying to predict.
I mean if we look at a particular example for instance absences here we have a very low P-value.
Remember the P-value here is the probability that the variable is not relevant.
That means there's an extremely low chance that absences was not a relevant feature when trying to predict
G-3 scores.
And you can easily tell that because you just come down side and check out that this has three stars
.
And essentially what you can do is kind of eyeball your summary model.
Check out which variables have stars on them and you'll see which ones are have a low probability of
not being significant.
Sometimes it's a little confusing about interpreting this model is they use of that double negative
.
But that's basically just because of the way the t test works or the probability of this coefficient
works.
Again the stars indicate the probability that the variable is not relevance.
So you want these numbers to be as small as possible and the stars will indicate really small numbers
.
For example we can tell here that looks like it's really likely that G-2 and absences are significance
to predicting the G-3 score and that they're pretty relevant and intuitively this makes sense if you
have a lot of absences you're probably not going to score really well in the test and it makes sense
that you're G-2 your second period score is extremely relevant to your final period score.
What's kind of surprising is that the Jiwon score was not as relevant as a g to score by a lot.
It only has a dot here instead of three stars.
And again go ahead and check out the notebook for a full rundown of the rest of this.
A final thing I want to explain here in the summary is the R-squared value the R-squared values just
the metric for evaluating the goodness of fit of your model hires better with one being the best and
it corresponds to the amount of variability in what you're predicting that is explained by the model
.
However you should know that while high R-squared indicates good correlation correlation does not always
imply causation.
If you're already familiar mystics sticks and you can also check out the f statistic and the resulting
p value for it as well as a residual standard error and the degrees of freedom will go ahead.
Just skip those for now.
All I want you to be aware of as far as I interpret in this model is being able to quickly understand
the R-squared value and note that whether or not you have a lot of the variants explained or if you
don't have the variance explained very well and then there's also the significance codes as far as the
stars and you can go ahead and quickly go through your model and check out which features have a low
probability of not being relevant.
Again that double negative sometimes confuses people so keep that in mind.
It's just the nature of the way the probability of the t test works.
Let's go ahead and try to visualize our model by just plotting out the residuals.
We're going to go out and clear the cons..
You want to actually grab the residuals of your model.
It's essentially a quick two step process.
You can call the residuals function and passing in your model and that will give you.
We check out the class of the rez.
It gives you a numeric vector and you can go ahead and do in order to plot it out using cheesy plot
is just call as data frame on residuals.
And then you can check the head of the residuals data from there and this will allow us to plot this
out using cheesy plus two.
Let's go ahead and plot out the residuals remember the residuals are just the difference between the
actual data points and our predicted linear regression model results so that actual line we drew in
a central are always trying to do is minimize that residual value.
Let's go ahead and scale Philly it blue.
Put a little Alpha on it.
So here I'm just going to plot a histogram using cheesy plot two of the residuals.
Let's go ahead and do that and we can choose Ben's later on.
They notice I actually have this here actually had this out in the beginning of the lecture but let's
go ahead and interpret it.
Now what's interesting here is that we would like the residuals to be normally distributed.
Again that goes back to that dartboard analogy for most regressions we want the residuals to look like
a normal distribution or plotted out because for residuals are normally distributed.
This indicates the mean of the difference between our predictions and the actual values is close to
zero.
Which means that when we miss we're missing both the short and long of the actual value and the likelihood
of a miss being far from the actual value gets smaller as the distance from the actual value gets larger
.
Well you should note here is that there are suspicious suspicious activity going on with residuals that
are large negative values.
Notice that we actually have some significant counts over here of negative residuals.
And the reason for that is because we're plotting out a linear regression model the models actually
predicting negative test scores for really poor performing students.
However the lowest score possible on a test is zero.
And that's why we're getting these predicted or large negative residual values because essentially the
models is saying these students are going to perform so poorly on the test.
I will predict a negative score.
However with the real training data the lowest possible score was a zero.
Which is why we're getting these weird set of large negative values and we're going to go ahead and
see how to deal with that in part three of this lecture series.
OK.
Hopefully found that informative and fun again.
Go ahead and check out the notebook if you want to reference any of this code and you want some more
in-depth explanations of how to interpret the summary of the model.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.